Genetics Game


Introduction:

This game will help students learn the difference between dominant and recessive alleles and how different combinations are expressed in the phenotype.


Home Page:

User chooses from "Determining Phenotypes", and "Predicting Genotypes", and "Determining Genotypes". [links]  Mousing over a link makes description of choice appear.

Link to "About" page:
  Short paragraph describing general purpose of web site.
  picture bibliography


Determining Phenotypes:

User is told which allele is dominant and which is recessive: Picture of a green plant with an “R” next to it; picture of the same plant but yellow with an “r” next to it.

Computer randomly generates “RR,” “Rr,” or “rr.”
Two plants in middle of screen (green and yellow).  User must click the one with the correct color according to the given genotype.
Computer keeps track of # Correct and # Incorrect.
"Back" link sends user back to home page.


Predicting Genotypes:

Computer randomly generates 2 phenotypes (out of RR, Rr, and rr), which are placed on the outside of a Punnett square.  
Inside each cell are the choices RR, Rr, and rr.  User must click on the one that belongs in that cell.
Computer keeps track of # Correct and # Incorrect.
"Back" link sends user back to home page.


Determining Genotypes (Challenge):

User picks 2 parent plants of unknown genotypes out of a somewhat large selection, which will produce 20 offspring. [clicks on 2 random pictures of plants; each picture has an assigned genotype variable that is not revealed to the user]
Depending on the genotypes assigned by the computer to the 2 selected plants, the 20 offspring will be different colors.
User must determine the genotypes of the 2 original selected plants.

20 random plants, each with a random genotype and corresponding color, are scattered around the screen.
User clicks on 2 of these plants, selecting them to be the parents.
20 offspring are shown on the screen, the genotypes & colors of which are determined by the genotypes of the parents.
User selects the genotypes of the parents after seeing the colors of the offspring.
Computer keeps track of # Correct and # Incorrect.
"Back" link sends user back to home page.
